Revert "Revert "[CIAPP] Extend Jenkins documentation for CI Visibility using plugin UI"" (#11007)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/jenkins.md

## Install the Datadog Jenkins plugin

Install and enable the [Datadog Jenkins plugin][2] v3.0.0 or newer:

1. In your Jenkins instance web interface, go to **Manage Jenkins > Manage Plugins**.
2. In the [Update Center][3] on the **Available** tab, search for `Datadog Plugin`.
3. Select the checkbox next to the plugin, and install using one of the two install buttons at the bottom of the screen.
4. To verify that the plugin is installed, search for `Datadog Plugin` on the **Installed** tab.

## Enabling CI Visibility on the plugin

1. In your Jenkins instance web interface, go to **Manage Jenkins > Configure System**.
2. Go to the `Datadog Plugin` section, scrolling down the configuration screen.
3. Select the `Datadog Agent` mode.

> 4. Configure the `Datadog Agent` host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Configure the `Agent` host.
```

> 5. Configure the `Traces Collection` port. (The default port is `8126` in the Datadog Agent.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Configure the `Traces Collection` port (default `8126`).
```

> 6. Click on `Enable CI Vibisility` checkbox to activate it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click on `Enable CI Visibility` checkbox to activate it.
```

> 7. Configure your CI Instance name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. (Optional) Configure your CI Instance name.
```

## Enable job log collection in the plugin

You can correlate your pipeline logs with the traces generated by CI Visibility.

1. In the web interface of your Jenkins instance, go to **Manage Jenkins > Configure System**.
2. Go to the `Datadog Plugin` section, scrolling down the configuration screen.
3. Select the `Datadog Agent` mode.
4. Configure the `Agent` host.

> 5. Configure the `Log Collection` port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Configure the `Log Collection` port, as configured in the previous step.
```

2. Go to the `Datadog Plugin` section, scrolling down the configuration screen.
3. Click on the `Advanced` button.
4. Configure the `Global Tags`.
5. Configure the `Global Job Tags`.
6. Save your configuration.

**Global tags** (`globalTags`): A comma-separated list of tags to apply to all metrics, traces, events, and service checks. Tags can include environment variables that are defined in the Jenkins controller instance: `global_tag:global_value,global_tag2:${SOME_ENVVAR},${OTHER_ENVVAR}:global_tagvalue`

**Global job tags** (`globalJobTags`): A comma-separated list of regexes to match a job and a list of tags to apply to that job. Tags can include environment variables that are defined in the Jenkins controller instance. Tags can reference match groups in the regex using the `$` symbol: `(.*?)_job_(*?)_release:someValue`

## Visualize pipeline data in Datadog

Once the integration is successfully configured, both [Pipelines][6] and [Pipeline Executions][7] pages will start populating with data after pipelines finish.

**Note**: The Pipelines page shows data for only the default branch of each repository.

## Troubleshooting

### Enable DEBUG log level for the Datadog Plugin

> If you have any issues with the Datadog Plugin, you can set the logs for the plugin in a `DEBUG` log level. Using this level, you are able to check the exception stacktrace if an issue arises.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have any issues with the Datadog Plugin, you can set the logs for the plugin in `DEBUG` level. Using this level you will be able to see stacktrace details if an exception is thrown.
```
